don't you all sit down yeah
is that for me that's great gracious of
you mr. president
well there's y'all lost for words well
that's certainly a great to have you
here mr. president and my breakfast I
like this idea you be my guest
it's your place and whatever we can do
that do I take is fine well today to the
business of hand I guess I do want to
say this I am particularly grateful this
morning for the large entourage of
monitor editors that are here from
Boston we have keep adding our editor
and our editor-in-chief Rafael and our
manager Jack Hoagland our managing
editor David Anibal and out there
somewhere a Brad Knickerbocker our
national editor can the ground rules
today well by the way on the UC
macneil-lehrer shooting here and they're
just going to be doing the preliminaries
the substance will be on yours and the
transcript will be yours sometimes this
afternoon the show incidentally the
needle air show I understand will be
tonight unless we get shoved off by some
really important news
I believe that covers about everything
oh yes we're going to be embargo to as
usual of this particular breakfast the
morning papers tomorrow the first ones
that can use it how to be used before
that time and the first question if I
may mr. president I've been wondering
for a while here and I feel as if a
chance to ask the question what were the
factors that were involved in their
moving away from support for Marco's and
getting behind mr. Kino
particularly after it appeared to some
of us that you were hanging you know
sticking very close to Marco said that
last press conference no oh the thing
was we've had an historic relationship
with the Philippines with their
government and their people put a great
many years our whole point and from the
very beginning was that this was a
decision that would have to be made by
the Filipino people and that we are not
going to interject ourselves in anything
other than any way that we might be
helpful in arriving at a severe arriving
at a solution without violence and
bloodshed and that was our whole purpose
all the way and finally it became
evident that which way the people were
deciding and this we've had this this
change without bloodshed and violence
simply wasn't that evident to you at
that point at the last press conference
all right Bob Thompson and
what are your chances no although we've
had people there meeting with her so
javi was going back and so forth
meeting with that government we want
them to know that we're ready to
cooperate in any way that we can be
helpful in this establishment of a
democratic procedure and know she is
have never asked for our counseling like
this she has done so in talking to the
people that we have there and that if so
why
that would be forward to me then no I
don't think there are any plans for us
to do anything except go directly there
before we go with any more question
could I just say a couple of words here
that and you all go ahead and eat I've
had my breakfast oh yeah you know I want
to thank you My Man Godfrey I've always
wanted to say that yes there was I want
to congratulate budge 20 years of
Sperling breakfast and I understand it's
almost 2,000 of those breakfasts and in
this town at least you have really
helped establish the fact that mom was
right the first meal of the day is the
most important and but I want to
congratulate you also on beginning your
fifth decade with monitor they told me
that Horace Greeley was your copy boy
now I knew him well and I just don't
think he would take such a such a
[Music]
president or my hero well I know we can
get back to the questions here
dangerously everyone but I have seen Leo
here and I've seen that can speak for
himself but I am going to say that I I
feel that the opposition to what we're
trying to do in Nicaragua it fails to
recognize that we're faced with a
situation something like the one I just
answered about in the Philippines there
is an effort down there but if this has
already had turned to violence but an
effort to bring about a democratic
solution to the problem to re-establish
a government that will be a government
chosen by the people those were the
goals of the revolution against Somoza
and the only ones who violated those
goals are those we now call the
Sandinistas who have stood there fellow
revolutionaries and took over by force
the government of that country the
Contras our best estimate is about 40
percent of the country's our former
Sandinistas alright Leo and a couple
more here and then I'm going to go to
some other table just be patient there's
an awful lot of people here go ahead
no I don't think that we ever got into
anything of that kind and now with these
charges being made as I said the other
day now there are three sets of laws
that might be involved our own
international law and the Filipino law
and if allegations of this kind or
charges are made then it's up to legal
procedures and whichever law body is
involved to resolve this all right
George then Pam I'm gonna go over Bob I
[Music]
think to lift this would be another step
they have made some steps some more
successful than others and I think
there's there's definitely a faction in
South Africa arisen that wants a
solution to this problem I wouldn't
think that that would be a very
progressive staff no they did that
president regarding the Philippines and
the communist threat there apparently
the hard core of the communist guerrilla
movement has determined to fight on
despite the change of government are you
prepared to offer more military aid to
the Philippine new Philippine government
if it's asked despite the budget
pressures here and would you relate the
communist threat they are to the one in
Nicaragua and differentiate between them
if you see a difference well there is
this difference the there was a
democratic solution reached without
violence reflecting what seemed to be
the will of the
of the of the Filipino people of the
Filipino people but in Nicaragua the
communist takeover has already happened
and we have a totalitarian communist
government in power in the Philippines
we've just had an evidence the other day
with that terrorist attack on the bus
and the killing of one was of 19 people
that the last time I heard I think that
the Communists in the Philippines have
had a setback they profit when you can
have a breakdown of law and order and a
conflict between say two other factions
neither one of which is communist and
they can step in and in the middle and
keep it going it reminds me back in
those days when I was a governor and the
campuses were rioting so and we
definitely had an intelligence report
that established that there in the
student riots our own domestic
communists were not on one side of the
other they were on both sides and their
goal was to simply keep stirring the pot
and keep the violence going because
that's where they then can find a
fertile field I'm sorry I did overlook
that party your question I think with
the relationship that we've always had
and this would have to be as a request
from them but we would help within the
budget constraints that we have in any
way that we could to maintain democracy
in the Philippines or to help them
maintain the president while you are
placing a high priority on an increased
military aid to the Contras indications
so far are that the American public
isn't very much concerned about the
issue and it seems to be little support
for it among our
and even apparently among the contador
nations that would have presumably the
most to lose from a Marxist threat in
Latin America my question is why do you
think this is so we do think we have the
support of neighboring countries there
in Latin America as a matter of fact my
trip to Grenada nine heads of state of
the nine Caribbean island nations they
brought up the subject and all of them
in total agreement leaned on me and said
please don't stop what you're doing down
there because Nicaragua under the
Sandinistas government represents the
greatest threat to our democracies that
we have ever experienced so I know where
they stand with regard to the American
people that's one of the reasons why I
think we need to do a little a little
talking there first of all you have to
start with the fact that most Americans
with our own problems and during
recessions over the past years and so
forth it's very easy to say and there is
some merit and saying well what are we
doing helping others far away when we
have our problems at home that's part of
it
second part of it is just a lack of lack
of general knowledge about here is a
country called Nicaragua most of us have
to look at the map even now to establish
where it is and they need to hear the
facts of this situation and so I'm going
by what Jefferson said he said if the
people know all the facts the people
will never make a mistake well they just
don't know all the facts and I'm going
to try to see that they do
the federal government to test federal
employees for drug use and how do you
expect that to affect employee morale in
Washington well no decision has been
made with regard to this suggestion for
everybody but I would like to point out
that the military is now doing this it's
also being done among our people to work
in the towers at the airports and where
there is a safety factor involved and
where you've certainly got some
justification to make sure that everyone
there is able and capable at any time of
doing doing the job for the safety of
others no decision has been made
generally although we do feel that any
place where there is a safety element
involved we not only are entitled to ask
for such a thing I think of a
responsibility to do that I I have the
same feelings that many people do about
how far do you go in invading the
privacy of individuals on the other hand
I can't help but think that if all of
our people in government would take the
lead in volunteering such a thing it
might have a salute on be an inspiration
to the rest of society
Elizabeth drew back there
I think this that if there's an undue
harassment of any individual in this
situation yes that can have an effect on
what you might be able to do in the in
the future with others on the other hand
if there has been absolute wrong doing
then there must be restitution but and
information that I have always had was
that while his salary was extremely
modest as a president of his country and
obviously could not have ever made him
wealthy the information I've always had
was that he was a millionaire before he
took office and so that there there
probably is some wealth that is his
legitimately by way of investments over
all these twenty years and that again
then I'll leave to the courts that's up
that's up for the courts to determine
whether the allegations are sound or not
do you equate opposition to the request
for military aid for the Contras with
support for the Sandinista regime do I
equate my my request for aid to the
Contras with regard to our support for
the El Salvador regime did you say no no
do you equate opposition to your request
with support for the Sandinistas oh well
it's hard not to that government is
there it's established in power and many
of the arguments that are used against
us have been what I consider
fallacious arguments such as that we're
attempting to overthrow a legitimate
government what is legitimate about a
government that took office at the point
of a gun that even eliminated or exiled
or drove out of the capital
the fellow revolutionaries that wanted
other goals in that revolution this has
to be whether intended or not support
for that particular government and let
me just state that with the three
leaders who were here the other day they
reiterated what has always been said to
us by the hackers that they want a
political solution that they are not
striving to overthrow they're striving
to get back to negotiating out the goals
of the revolution that they laid down to
the Organization of American States when
they asked for their help president a
lot of states have had success with the
idea of tax amnesty letting for giving
them fines they'll pay their taxes back
interest if they'll pay up what do what
do you see
do you see this as a possible federal
solution one-time solution what kind of
philosophy do you think how do you see
it
all I can tell you is we're looking at
this and studying it very closely I had
heard from a couple of other governors
where they've tried this some time ago
and I brought this problem here those
who are studying say that there are
certain hazards that must be looked at
as to regard to whether you suddenly
create a kind of a tax free period for
individuals who can then count on a
future amnesty Canada and in the
meantime have had the use of the money
but all of those things are being looked
at and if it proves out that things of
this kind can be guarded against
practically why it sounds like a way to
maybe end a situation in which we are
we are losing billions and billions of
dollars a year from people who are not
paying they're just one thing the image
of the great colossus of the north still
lives in latin america none of our
friends down there and none of those
allies who are heart and soul in favor
of us doing what we're doing now and
what we're asking to do none of them
want us to send troops in there and we
don't we don't want to do that we don't
think it's necessary I don't go around
shouting that because frankly while we
have no intention of doing any such
thing it doesn't bother me at all
if the Sandinistas go to bed every night
wondering what if we're going to
[Music]
the national security no I don't think
so I our whole relationship here in this
Western Hemisphere with all of our
neighbors we have never achieved the
relationship the neighborliness that
that could exist and should exist we've
done better here on the northern
continent with the three powers here but
we have an obligation to think in terms
of the relationship with all of them and
uh I don't think there's any any profit
in our going back to that big colossus
image as a matter of fact when i made my
trip early on in my administration down
to latin america i went there not with a
plan but asking them for their ideas
because we've had with the best of
intentions presidents in the past who've
gone down and said here is a plan a good
neighbor plan at this plan of that and
always it was the big colossus offering
the plan and I said to them I'd rather
have a talk with you find out from all
of you how we can have this kind of good
neighbor relationship initiative that we
always had it was us to try and be
helpful as we can in establishing a
peace process there still stands that
the roadblock this time was the one
individual who's been a stumbling block
all the way and that is Arafat and the
PLO and with a murder of that mayor you
have to see that now the difficulty
first of all the peace process must
involve the problems of the Palestinian
people but how can now in the face of
this total refusal by Arafat
how can you involve the Palestinians in
negotiations when they understand the
threat to themselves of any individual
who allows himself to be advanced as a
representative of the people they all
know both the Israeli side and King
Hussein and all of them that we still
are desirous of establishing peace and
will do everything we can to help but
again we can't just walk in and dictate
characterize that regime or the
potential dangers but what the real
purpose of the age of the Contras is
that's not the case on the other hand
you could say a moment ago that
Nicaragua the condoms takeover has
already happened and we have a
totalitarianism in power is that
think of where a totalitarian regime in
power has called for elections not
honest elections this election that they
did hold that one election was
completely phony they would not allow
the other side to campaign they would
allow their goal and this is the thing
if you don't have the pressure the
threat to the Sandinistas threat against
their regime there is nothing to make
them then enter into negotiations and
this has been the goal of the Contras
from the beginning if you remember quite
some time ago they offered and we
carried that offer to all the Contador
nations and to the others they offered
to lay down their arms that they want to
come in meet with their one-time fellow
revolutionaries and then try to
establish a government that will be
based on the principles that they had
said we're guiding their their
revolution to begin with all of what I
denied that they want to overthrow that
government what is it in the ghost other
than the loss
power well yes it except if they would
as in our own country and in other
democracies they would be just as free
to submit themselves to the voters for
the approval and support of the people
and if they could win that support to
they'd continue to be the government so
how my memory is I'm trying to really
call on people the way I've seen hands
and I'm sure I'm mixed up by now
but I'm glad to also go to the various
tables it's a hard problem mr. president
I'm glad you're doing Holly yeah you
don't know the burden I have anyway bill
you're next and then I did see Jack Cole
very early and Mort I just know you
you're ready mr. president you're
quoting Thomas Jefferson reminded me
that he also said something to the
effect that if error of opinion is to be
tolerated reason should be left free to
contradict it and this should be a
monument of our republic and my question
is isn't it beneath our dignity as a
government to get worried about a
communist drum beater being on the
Airways for a few minutes we we've got
the most effective infectious system
haven't we they should be worried about
us and doesn't that make us more likely
like the Communists and like the
authoritarian governments i speaking of
Viktor Posner yes I was sure that's who
you had in mind
[Laughter]
I think the different the difference in
the situation was that here and with
because of our unique fairness in
democracies in which if a president is
going to speak the other party is going
to be permitted to respond and we have
done that I've also sometimes thought
that the president ought to maybe have
two minutes of rebuttal after the other
fellas responded but it was the
situation and I must say everyone at ABC
has been not only apologetic but have
themselves said this was the wrong
situation to apparently be giving the
Soviet Union equal time or space to to
respond here in our own country on a
speech on our our affairs this does not
mean that they should not have him on
the air at anytime they want and if they
think he can and and they've done this
he's been on the air and I've just seen
him as recently as yesterday and another
program and that that's fine I think it
was the juxtaposition of apparently he
was now going to be allowed to have the
last word in responding and rebutting a
not only my speech but that of the
democratic party their response and they
as I say talk to ruin our religion he
has talked to me about it and he regrets
very much the the whole thing and says
that all of their people feel that yes
this was the wrong way to do it they
could have had him on the next day just
as well and giving him a half an hour
okay jack
[Music]
we have submitted a budget that meets
the gramm-rudman-hollings terms with
regard to reducing the deficit I think
we've been very modest in our in our
projections and the budgeting process
all the Congress has to do is take a
look at that budget and you know this
whole budgeting process is pretty
ridiculous and you stop to think about
it we don't just come up with a set of
numbers of what we'd like to see we sit
for days and weeks and hours in those
days yeah every day around the the
cabinet table the people there are the
people who have to administer the
programs that have been handed to them
by the Congress of the United States
there isn't anything the administration
does we don't spend a dime and we don't
and we can we take the programs that
have been passed by legislation that are
authorized now the people that are going
to run them but the best of their
ability come up with a figure that they
think they can administer those programs
the way they're supposed to be done then
they go back up to the hill and they're
the people who have nothing to do with
the running or management of those
programs they just make a decision no
sir you've got to take ten billion
dollars more in this program or that I
remember a few years ago happened
earlier than when I was here and I can't
remember the exact dates but I was I had
taken a two-year period on one go to
government program the job training
program and in that two-year period that
program had spent two hundred and fifty
two billion dollars no pardon me two
hundred and fifty two million dollars
and it prorated out to more than 50
dollars for everyone the people who are
now with us who served with other
administrations who told me that when
they headed up such jobs in the governor
came to the end of the year and had not
spent all the money they were ordered by
the Congress to go out and spend that
money we think that we've we boiled that
down pretty far and we think that that
and when you stalk for enabler to it
there's there's the economic situation
with other countries that we're trying
to help all the world has announced its
intention to try to help and there is
the Security Assistance Security
Assistance in spots of the world that if
the our potential adversaries would like
to move in and have their way the cost
to us then just for deterrent and
defense against this occupation of those
other of those regions would be far
greater than it is now
to help them have the security to
protect themselves the sequence Morton
back to Mary McCrory then to Susan and
I'll try to get
force of only about 6,000 people they
have failed to capture any town there is
no evidence of rioting in the streets
against the Sandinistas that as bad as
however bad the Sandinistas art doesn't
this suggests that the that the
conference have failed to develop the
kind of popular support for their
supposes the democratic revolution that
the Aquino side did in the Philippine I
don't I don't believe that because right
now the people under a totalitarian
regime have seen what can happen to
anyone who disagrees with that regime I
met here personally a year or so ago the
young minister who was ordered not to
preach just to do a sermon in his church
but he did it and he will bear the scars
for the rest of his life of what
happened because that night they simply
burst into his house dragged him out and
treated him so badly but the Contras are
not just four thousand there are upwards
of twenty to twenty five thousand and
the only thing this is why we're asking
for what we're asking for they are
unarmed Contras at the moment but the
fact that a great many of the people now
with the Contras our deserters from the
sandanista military the very fact that
there has been an underground movement
of family smuggling their sons out of
the country to keep them from being
drafted into that military indicates
that there is not public support and s
for the church they banned the
publishing of the Catholic newspaper
down there they have now stopped the
broadcasting of religious services by
the church we saw their treatment of the
of the Pope and there the treatment of
Bishop Brando Bravo is is is something
that indicates which side the church is
on and it was the church that offered
when the Contras said they would they'd
want to lay down there are
and come in and negotiate out a way to
establish a government the church
offered to be the mediator and to make
sure that everybody played fair
this sequence now Susan Mary McCrory
David Broder
the aides to it
oh yes I think we know that they have
launched a disinformation campaign we
know that they have a lobbying force
right here in our own country that is
working the same way any other lobbyists
work to try and keep this going now this
is not this is not accusing the
opponents of being knowing aids to the
Sandinistas at all it's the same problem
we've had with down over the years with
communist fronts and and unwitting
people that know i can speak from
experience on that because at one time
in my life i was on the board of
directors of two outfits that turned out
to be communist france in hollywood
I have to say that they are misguided
and this won't be the first time it's
matter of fact the other day the great
many of those people that were around
the cabinet table when the three you
know leaders were here and I want to
enjoin them were leaders of various
religious groups and the very next day
comes out the statement that there is
another combination of religious groups
that are opposed to our aid these people
around the cabinet table have been
raising funds privately to help the
contras so there is a great division
there there is even a division within
the churches they eat the denominations
I do know that a few years ago there was
a widespread story in this country that
a an American Bishop had been leading
some refugees toward the Honduran border
and they were attacked by the Contras
and by this time he was back in this
country and I phoned him and he said no
I was leading this group of refugees to
escape Nicaragua and get into Honduras
and he said we were attacked by the
sandanista army and he said the Contras
came to our rescue
and secondly would you assess for us
your own personal opinion of how your
friend Paul Laxalt would do in
Republican presidential primaries Oh
Mary huge you you thrown up a nasty
curve there with regard to Governor
Cuomo I've often thought that
remembering my own days at governor's
conferences when I was a governor that
if he had been a governor then or I was
a governor now we'd be on opposite sides
and regard to Paul Laxalt
I met everything I said I meant
everything I said about him the other
night at that dinner in his honor he is
he is a gentleman he was a fine governor
he is the has the utmost of integrity
and I am very proud and pleased to call
him friend all right David 50 senators
have sent you a letter including I
believe to about two-thirds of the
Republican senators saying that they
think that action on your tax bill in
the Senate should be held up until you
enter into negotiations with the members
of Congress and reach a definitive
agreement on a budget for next year what
is your reaction well I'm already agreed
on the budget it's just up to Congress
now to join me in that we've we
submitted a budget but I know about that
letter and I understand their right to
do it but I happen to believe that every
cookstove has two front burners and
there's no reason why the United States
Senate or the United States Congress
can't be cooking on both burners the tax
reform program has nothing to do what it
has things to do with but is there's no
way interferes with continuing to make
progress on the on the budget and the
fight against the deficit and so forth
and I just don't see why we should leave
one burner cold while we just cook on
the
on the one burner these are two tracks
and they should go forward together okay
you declined to comment on treatment of
dr. Sakharov since then two things have
happened that the letter has been
smuggled out by dr. soccer off detailing
this treatment and at the party congress
in moscow mr. gorbachev attack you and
foreign policy are you ready now to say
anything about what you how you feel the
Soviets are tweeting dr. soccer office I
think and this is kind of difficult
because of policy that I've been
following and that has had some measure
of success with them in politics if you
back somebody publicly into a corner and
you make it impossible for them to give
in in the eyes of their supporters their
constituency their people they look like
they're taking orders from a foreign
government and therefore I can assure
you that the general secretary of the
Soviet Union knows exactly what I think
of the way they're treating not only to
soccer off but all the others that they
have there in captivity and I think it
if we're gonna have success and we have
had some little measure of success now
since the at least a sizeable gesture
since the Geneva summit I think I would
rather leave it that I'm gonna deal
directly with them on how I feel and the
less that I say about it publicly the
better chance we have of helping those
people and you're next but let me just
I've been looking for questioning so
hard I may have missed an answer along
the way but have you really even asked
about the summit the prospect of a
summit in June and we're gonna get one
at all we've we've heard no word the
there was only a kind of an informal
suggestion that maybe September would be
better in that game
from one individual in their
governmental structure it was never made
as a formal proposal we're still
sticking to the early summer because of
our own election we've explained this to
them that this would be kind of
complicated and heavy-duty for us to try
and combine the two things we have not
had a formal answer one way or the other
it is tough to I think if it does slip
through our fingers I Got News for them
there won't be an 87 summit in Moscow
yes sir all right Andy sorry but since
you asked my question I don't know
perhaps might be an opportunity to move
away from the daily headlines and ask
you this you have 35 months to go in
your term quite aside from our agenda
what would you like to accomplish in
that time what are your main goals
beyond the track that will lead I know
that we cannot balance the budget prior
to my getting out but beyond that track
the one that is adopted in
gramm-rudman-hollings to come to a
balanced budget to have the balanced
budget amendment so that from there on
this government will begin to act
sensibly with regard to its spending
policies to have underway actually being
implemented the reductions in nuclear
weapons that we have been proposing
trying to get for so long all of those
things I think and finally kind of tie
up the loose ends of federalism to where
we have done what Franklin Delano
Roosevelt said he was going to do clear
back in 1932 and that was restored to
states and local communities the
autonomy and authority that had been
unjustly seized by the federal
government Mary Leonard has been waiting
a long while so is Finley and Fred
Barnes
lose and then mark shields and who knows
what do you say nice man secretary
Rogers and his assessment that the NASA
decision-making process was flawed what
do you think the future is of the NASA
program now what what revisions do you
think may have to be made and in light
of what's coming out from the
revelations of last week
well apparently and I'm going to wait
until I do get the final report from him
but apparently there were ways whether
it was intentional or not there were
ways in which counsel and advice on
regard to the safety factor could be
ignored and the launch took place with
the tragic follow-up and therefore there
must be we first established what
actually caused the crash although that
is becoming seeming to become more
evident every day but then we make sure
that there can be no such follow-up in
the future now I don't know whether
there was any intent or whether anyone
knowingly just gambled and took a chance
or whether it was just error in judgment
but that's what we're going to find out
with this report and as I say I am
determined to keep the pledge I made to
the families of those who died every one
of them said to me went out of their way
to say to me this program must continue
and I believe it is it's proven itself
so many times in the spin-offs that have
come from those things that knowledge
that we have gained but I want to see it
go forward but I want to see it go
forward in which this sort of thing can
never happen again
Finley's Fred knew in Denmark
a letter sent to you the answer seemed
to rule out pretty definitively any
participation by the white house in any
kind of conference aimed at working out
problems that are otherwise unsolvable
through the political process is that in
fact your position are there are no
conditions under which you would agree
to put on the table those items that
seem to stand in the way of a of an
agreement of a grand compromise
so-called oh no will no we're going to
I'm going to meet with everybody at
anybody
and consult with them not only the
people that they're supportive of our
positions but those opposed and try to
work these things out but some of the
things that have been suggested as a
compromise are things that I think would
be a total repudiation of of what our
position should be such as with regard
to tax increases there's just no way
because the the greatest means of
bringing about a sensible financial
policy is going to come through growth
in the economy and I cannot be convinced
that that a tax increase does not run
the risk of putting us back into that
cycle we've been on ever since World War
two nine recessions one right after the
other and suddenly we've had 39 months
the longest period of recovery in all
this time and what seems to be a solid
recovery but the most significant thing
is the government is getting more
revenues at the lower tax rates than it
was getting at the higher tax rates
you're not listed non-negotiable there
there are other things they what needs
to be worked out Canada
negotiated are the various programs and
where there is opposition to what they
call or some of our cuts and let them
find out how we see the program running
at the lower figure and that the cuts
would not necessarily come from taking
the food out of the mouths of anyone in
a program they might come from just
straightening up some of the
administrative overhead we have been
conducting and it's been very quiet and
not many of you paid much attention to
it we've been conducting a program of
management reform in government and the
the results are astounding
we've simply been trying to put the
federal government of the same basis
that a business would be on with regard
to just management and doing away with
the the carelessness and the and the
spending that is needless such things as
having the administrative functions of a
program or a department or agency
instead of every one of them having its
own administrative section you find out
that no you can have an administrative
section that services a dozen such
program this is the Seaquest al Fred Lou
mark George and Mars
that's cess I'm doing the best I can
hear while mopping up most of them are
right in the center go ahead
some of the wise statements that have
been made by many people in the past
about what luck really is if I were
really lucky I wouldn't have this job
you really mean it I'm safe to play
cards with sometimes throwing your
support along the way or will you wait
right down to the kind of the ballot
thing at the convention before you make
known your feeling about the various
candidates well this is the second time
I've had this problem because I had it
once before as a governor you're the
titular head of the party and I don't
see how without being coming divisive
and hurting the very thing you want to
help that as the titular head you can
involve yourself in a primary so I I
feel that I'm gonna have to bide my time
but then whoever is our party's nominee
I'm gonna do everything I can to get him
elected mark you got a one-liner mr.
president after the death of the
president but when you four times will a
group of petty vindictive men but
they're not defeat Franklin Roosevelt
life so I took it even with him in depth
by passing the 22nd minute to the
Constitution limiting presidents to two
terms
thus you it's known by everybody's
pockets can never running in the race
has already started it started last
September in Michigan this past weekend
in Tennessee full fledged campaigns
marduk how do you feel right now about
the 22nd amendment and do you see any
circumstances under which you would
advocate its repeal yes but let's make
one thing plain I would not be talking
about myself no one could ever take on
that problem while in office
and without ruling it out a ruling that
any change would have to be implemented
then for the next person that holds the
office so that is my feeling but since
I've been here and I must say it has
been a change I accepted that you know I
grew up so much of this country with
that tradition that Washington said now
if you look back he set the tradition
about two terms because at that time
everyone had was very conscious that we
must not become like a kingdom we must
not begin to have inherited positions
and so forth
then Franklin Delano Roosevelt proved
that the people could vote for someone
they wanted and you're right I think
that this is what prompted the 22nd
amendment but since I've been here I've
come to feel and not for myself but this
is an infringement on the people's
democratic rights we have congressmen
and Senators who serve up to 40 years or
elect a time after time why do we say to
the people of this country that they
cannot choose who they want for as long
as they want him in this particular
office there are plenty of safeguards
against the power of the presidency that
he could not become a lifetime monarch
or anything but I think that that the
people if we're really a truly a
democracy should have the right to vote
for whoever they want to do for as long
as they wanted George I'm sorry to hold
you so long the process that could lead
to the foreclosure of many thousands of
farms do you feel comfortable presiding
over a government that could take over
maybe tens of thousands of family farms
and and what would you do with that land
this terrible problem with the farmers
let communicate with to see if we can
find any answer they haven't thought of
that will enable them to clear the decks
but they are as I say they're people who
have apparently exhausted all that is
there it yes it's tragic got it
I think they know this whole matter is
but in the other hand is this any
different than any other business the
tries comes to the end of the road and
finds that it can't make it and goes out
of business if there we are going to do
everything we can if there is some
Avenue still open that can help these
individuals but they are only a small
percentage each one a tragic case in it
and you have to bleed for them but there
are only a tiny percentage of the 20
million farms that we have in the
country near the end Lawrence and then
ordered an Union to be ahead of us in
planes and tanks and boats and and after
five years of a bill done who hold up
the same chart and the Russians are
still ahead of us and planes and tanks
and boats we've spent a trillion dollars
they're supposed to be a bureaucratic
lee stifled stagnating society that
can't grow how do you explain the fact
that they can keep up with us and
maintain that gap despite all of our
efforts
well militarily not just numbers of
weapons we have closed the gap
considerably in these five years and
that we've been doing something that the
previous president in his last year in
office when he had to make his five-year
projection he recognized this and
projected spending that is even greater
than we have ended up spending the the
Soviet Union has been on this military
buildup for years and years before we
started this trying to catch up and a
matter of fact that many of those
weapons they're they're superior to not
only us but to us plus our NATO allies
it is necessary for us to actually have
the same number of weapons they do we
think of our military as a deterrent and
as a deterrent
force this means that you're capable of
making it so difficult even with the
enemy's superior numbers that they're
going to think several times before they
launch an attack and we're we're closer
to that deterrent thing that we have
been before some of this however it
comes in not matching them in the number
of tanks but I'm having superior I said
before anti-tank weapons and we we have
a global plan military program it is
going forward and we're not we're not
gonna try to match them tank for tank or
artillery gun for artillery gun they're
not going to match them that way why
should we hold up these charts that show
the gaps with the minister said if
they're one of us and members of Tanks
because a poll revealed that an
overwhelming majority of people having
listened to the drumbeat of propaganda
against the defense build-up actually
now believes that we are superior in
numbers to the Soviet Union and if the
American people believe that once again
mr. Jefferson was right it's up to us to
give him the facts we're so close to the
end damn I want to get to Charlotte can
we do this right there quick quickly mr.
president does your objection to a tax
increase Here I am he bounced a budget
extend oil import levy
and would you veto that it should it be
passed for the Congress let me say that
this was one of the things that was
talked not as a tax increase for
balancing the budget this was talked at
one time as a part of the tax reform in
order to keep it revenue neutral and
bringing in the same revenue without an
increase and but it would be simply
turning to something like that in lieu
of
of some income tax and it was considered
we I have to say that having looked at
it and studied it from all this time in
case it shouldn't become one of the
factors I have to say that I'm opposed I
I think it would have have a bad effect
on our own economy and finally showing
us you me mr. president the Geneva arms
talks ended without any apparent
progress towards an agreement why is
that and what is mr. Gorbachev now
criticizing the United States for a lack
of progress when are we going to get
down to negotiating seriously behind
closed doors we did get down to it and
we were the only ones playing my 25
years experience as a negotiator
somebody comes forth with an offer and
you come forth with a counter proposal
and sometimes it meets part of the
there's are all of a Terp whatever we
came back as early as last November with
a proposal on what we call start and
these these are the strategic weapons
and all and we made a proposal that that
actually accepted much of what Gorbachev
had said but then got down to the
details it's it's a very complicated
you've got a a whole mix of those
nuclear weapons on each side and each
side places different reliance on some
of the others so when you just talk
warheads you say well now how we go to
work this out which weapons are we
talking about and we came up with a
proposal that recognized his 50%
reduction and the ultimate elimination
and there was never a response they just
sit there with the first proposal and
never open their mouths again the same
thing is true we made every effort for
what's in stay it had encouraged us by
suggesting that maybe where we could
start and really get a quick solution
would be on the medium range weapons in
Europe where we have the Pershing's and
the cruise missiles against their SS 20s
and
we think that there was a flaw in their
proposal and was that yes they would
move along for Europe but then they
would leave them massed on the Asian
front where we also have allies and
friends and we proposed let's get rid of
all of them because those missiles 30s s
20s are mobile this means that in less
than 12 hours they could have them back
aimed at Europe but also some of them
based on that Asian front there are
European targets that are within range
of them without them even moving so we
would be withdrawing all of our
medium-range weapons and they would
still be left with this over here and
we've got some friends and allies South
Korean Japan and so forth over on that
front and again they would be left with
an advantage and so we have made a
counter proposal that let's at least get
rid of the medium range weapons all of
them and since it's an offensive weapon
on their side we thought that they ought
to be willing to to agree with us but
they haven't we've already tried to
negotiate or he's cutting me off I'm
gonna have to cut you Charlotte but past
the hour a little bit
mr. president you know reporters you
know us we don't always say the thing
you would expect but it's a moment I
think I'm speaking I think for the whole
group certainly for myself it is so
gracious of you to have us over here
you've had us over here several times
thank you so very much thank you and I'm
glad that you now understand how I feel
after the press conference with all
those hands still waving an idea come on
okay thanks Mike